federalist 40 the powers of the
convention to form a mixed government
examined and sustained from the new york
packet
friday january 18 1788
madison to the people of the state of
new york
the second point to be examined is
whether the convention were authorized
to frame and propose this mixed
constitution
the powers of the convention ought in
strictness to be determined by an
inspection of the commissions given to
the members by their respective
constituents
as all of these however had reference
either to the recommendation from the
meeting at annapolis in september 1786
or to that from congress in february
it will be sufficient to recur to these
particular acts
the act from annapolis recommends the
appointment of commissioners to take
into consideration the situation of the
united states
to devise such further provisions as
shall appear to them necessary to render
the constitution of the federal
government adequate to the exigencies of
the union
and to report such an act for that
purpose to the united states in congress
assembled as when agreed to by them
and afterwards confirmed by the
legislature of every state will
effectually provide for the same
the recommendatory act of congress is in
the words following
whereas there is provision in the
articles of confederation and perpetual
union
for making alterations therein by the
ascent of a congress of the united
states
and of the legislatures of the several
states and whereas experience hath
evinced that there are defects in the
present confederation
as a mean to remedy which several of the
states and particularly the state of new
york by express instructions to their
delegates in congress
have suggested a convention for the
purposes expressed in the following
resolution
and such convention appearing to be the
most probable mean of establishing in
these states a firm national government
resolved that in the opinion of congress
it is expedient that on the second
monday of may
next a convention of delegates who shall
have been appointed by the several
states be held at philadelphia for the
sole and express purpose
of revising the articles of
confederation and reporting to congress
and the several legislatures such
alterations and provisions therein
as shall when agreed to in congress and
confirmed by the states render the
federal constitution
adequate to the exigencies of government
and the preservation of the union
from these two acts it appears first
that the object of the convention was to
establish in these states a firm
national government
second that this government was to be as
would be adequate to the exigencies of
government
and the preservation of the union third
that these purposes were to be affected
by alterations and provisions in the
articles of confederation
as it is expressed in the act of
congress or by such further provisions
as should appear necessary as it stands
in the recommendatory act from annapolis
fourth that the alterations and
provisions were to be reported to
congress and to the states in order to
be agreed to
by the former and confirmed by the
latter from a comparison and fair
construction of these several modes of
expression is to be deduced the
authority under which the convention
acted
they were to frame a national government
adequate to the exigencies of government
and of the union and to reduce the
articles of confederation into such form
as to accomplish these purposes
there are two rules of construction
dictated by plain reason
as well as founded on legal axioms the
one is
that every part of the expression ought
if possible to be allowed
some meaning and be made to conspire to
some common end
the other is that where the several
parts cannot be made coincide
the less important should give way to
the more important part
the means should be sacrificed to the
end rather than the end to the means
suppose then that the expressions
defining the authority of the convention
were irreconcilably at variance with
each other that a national and adequate
government could not possibly
in the judgment of the convention be
affected by alterations and provisions
in the articles of confederation
which part of the definition ought to
have been embraced and which rejected
which was the more important which the
less important part
which the end which the means let the
most scrupulous expositors of delegated
powers
let the most inveterate objectors
against those exercised by the
convention answer these questions
let them declare whether it was of most
importance to the happiness of the
people of america that the articles of
confederation should be disregarded
and an adequate government be provided
and the union preserved or that an
adequate government should be omitted in
the articles of confederation preserved
let them declare whether the
preservation of these articles was the
end
for securing which a reform of the
government was to be introduced as the
means
or whether the establishment of a
government adequate to the national
happiness was the end at which these
articles themselves originally aimed
and to which they ought as insufficient
means to have been sacrificed
but is it necessary to suppose that
these expressions are absolutely
irreconcilable to each other that no
alterations or provisions in the
articles of the confederation could
possibly mold them into a national and
adequate government
into such a government as has been
proposed by the convention
no stress it is presumed will in this
case be laid on the title
a change of that could never be deemed
an exercise of ungranted power
alterations in the body of the
instrument are expressly authorized
new provisions therein are also
expressly authorized
here then is a power to change the title
to insert new articles to alter old ones
must it of necessity be admitted that
this power is infringed so long as a
part of the old articles remain
those who maintain the affirmative ought
at least to mark the boundary between
authorized and usurped innovations
between that degree of change which lies
within the compass of alterations and
further provisions and that which
amounts to a transmutation of the
government
will it be said that the alterations
ought not to have touched the substance
of the confederation
the states would never have appointed a
convention with so much solemnity nor
described its objects with so much
latitude if some substantial reform had
not been in contemplation
will it be said that the fundamental
principles of the confederation were not
within the purview of the convention and
ought not to have been varied
i ask what are these principles do they
require that in the establishment of the
constitution the states should be
regarded as distinct and independent
sovereigns
they are so regarded by the constitution
proposed
do they require that the members of the
government should derive their
appointment from the legislatures
not from the people of the states one
branch of the new government is to be
appointed by these legislatures
and under the confederation the
delegates to congress may all be
appointed immediately by the people
and in two states connecticut and rhode
island are actually so appointed
do they require that the powers of the
government should act on the states and
not immediately on individuals
in some instances as has been shown the
powers of the new government will act on
the states in their collective
characters
in some instances also those of the
existing government act immediately on
individuals
in cases of capture of piracy of the
post office of coins
weights and measures of trade with the
indians of claims under grants of land
by different states
and above all in the case of trials by
quartz marshall
in the army and navy by which death may
be inflicted without the intervention of
a jury or even of a civil
magistrate in all these cases the powers
of the confederation operate immediately
on the persons and interests of
individual citizens
do these fundamental principles require
particularly that no tax should be
levied without the intermediate agency
of the states
the confederation itself authorizes a
direct tax to a certain extent on the
post office
the power of coinage has been so
construed by congress as to levy
attribute immediately from that source
also
but precommitting these instances was it
not an acknowledged object of the
convention and the universal expectation
of the people that the regulation of
trade should be submitted to the general
government
in such a form as would render it an
immediate source of general revenue
had not congress repeatedly recommended
this measure as not inconsistent with
the fundamental principles of the
confederation
had not every state but one had not new
york herself
so far complied with the plan of
congress as to recognize the principle
of the innovation
do these principles in fine require that
the powers of the general government
should be limited
and that beyond this limit the states
should be left in possession of their
sovereignty and independence
we have seen that in the new government
as in the old the general powers are
limited and that the states in
all unenumerated cases are left in the
enjoyment of their sovereign and
independent jurisdiction
the truth is that the great principles
of the constitution proposed by the
convention may be considered less as
absolutely new
than as the expansion of principles
which are found in the articles of
confederation
the misfortune under the latter system
has been that these principles are so
feeble and confined as to justify all
the charges of inefficiency which have
been urged against it
and to require a degree of enlargement
which gives to the new system the aspect
of an entire transformation of the old
in one particular it is admitted that
the convention have departed from the
tenor of their commission
instead of reporting a plan requiring
the confirmation of the legislatures of
all the states
they have reported a plan which is to be
confirmed by the people and may be
carried into effect by nine states only
it is worthy of remark that this
objection though the most plausible has
been the least urged in the publications
which have swarmed against the
convention
the forbearance can only have proceeded
from an irresistible conviction of the
absurdity
of subjecting the fate of twelve states
to the perverseness or corruption of a
thirteenth
from the example of inflexible
opposition given by a majority of
one-sixtieth of the people of america to
a measure approved and called for by the
voice of twelve states comprising
fifty-nine sixtieths of the people an
example still fresh in the memory and
indignation of every citizen who has
felt for the wounded honor and
prosperity of his country
as this objection therefore has been in
a manner waived by those who have
criticized the powers of the convention
i dismiss it without further observation
the third point to be inquired into is
how far considerations of duty arising
out of the case
itself could have supplied any defect of
regular authority
in the preceding inquiries the powers of
the convention have been analyzed and
tried with the same rigor and by the
same rules as if they had been real and
final powers for the establishment of a
constitution for the united states
we have seen in what manner they have
borne the trial even on that supposition
it is time now to recollect that the
powers were merely advisory and
recommendatory
that they were so meant by the states
and so understood by the convention and
that the latter have accordingly planned
and proposed a constitution which is to
be of no more consequence than the paper
on which it is written
unless it be stamped with the
approbation of those to whom it is
addressed
this reflection places the subject in a
point of view altogether different
and will enable us to judge with
propriety of the course taken by the
convention
let us view the ground on which the
convention stood it may be collected
from their proceedings that they were
deeply and unanimously impressed with
the crisis which had led their country
almost with one voice to make so
singular and solomon experiment for
correcting the errors of a system by
which this crisis had been produced that
they were no less deeply and unanimously
convinced that such a reform as they
have proposed was absolutely necessary
to affect the purposes of their
appointment it could not be unknown to
them that the hopes and expectations of
the great body of citizens throughout
this great empire were turned with the
keenest anxiety to the event of their
deliberations
they had every reason to believe that
the contrary sentiments agitated the
minds and bosoms of every external and
internal foe to the liberty and
prosperity of the united states
they had seen in the origin and progress
of the experiment the alacrity with
which the proposition
made by a single state virginia towards
a partial amendment of the confederation
had been attended to and promoted they
had seen the liberty assumed by a very
few deputies from a very few states
convened at annapolis
of recommending a great and critical
object wholly foreign to their
commission
not only justified by the public opinion
but actually carried into effect by 12
out of the 13 states
they had seen in a variety of instances
assumptions by congress
not only of recommendatory but of
operative powers warranted in the public
estimation
by occasions and objects infinitely less
urgent than those by which their conduct
was to be governed
they must have reflected that in all
great changes of established governance
forms ought to give way to substance
that a rigid adherence in such cases to
the former would render nominal and
nugatory the transcendent and precious
right of the people to abolish or alter
their governance
as to them shall seem most likely to
affect their safety and happiness
declaration of independence since it is
impossible for the people spontaneously
and universally to move in concert
towards their object
and it is therefore essential that such
changes be instituted by some
informal and unauthorized propositions
made by some patriotic and respectable
citizen
or number of citizens they must have
recollected that it was by this
irregular and assumed privilege of
proposing to the people plans for their
safety and happiness
that the states were first united
against the danger with which they were
threatened by their ancient government
that committees and congresses were
formed for concentrating their efforts
and defending their rights and that
conventions were elected in the several
states for establishing the
constitutions under which they are now
governed
nor could it have been forgotten that no
little ill-timed scruples no zeal for
adhering to ordinary forms were anywhere
seen
except in those who wish to indulge
under these masks their secret enmity to
the substance contended for
they must have borne in mind that as the
plan to be framed and proposed was to be
submitted to the people themselves the
disapprobation of this supreme authority
would destroy it forever
its approbation blot out antecedent
errors and irregularities
it might even have occurred to them that
where a disposition to caval prevailed
their neglect to execute the degree of
power vested in them
and still more their recommendation of
any measure whatever not warranted by
their commission would not less excite
animate version than a recommendation at
once of a measure fully commensurate to
the national exigencies
had the convention under all these
impressions and in the midst of all
these considerations
instead of exercising a manly confidence
in their country by whose confidence
they had been
so peculiarly distinguished and of
pointing out a system capable in their
judgment of securing its happiness
taken the cold and sullen resolution of
disappointing its ardent hopes
of sacrificing substance to forms of
committing the dearest interests of
their country to the uncertainties of
delay and hazard of events
let me ask the man who can raise his
mind to one elevated conception who can
awaken in his bosom one patriotic
emotion what judgment ought to have been
pronounced by the impartial world by the
friends of mankind
by every virtuous citizen on the
conducting character of this assembly
or if there be a man whose propensity to
condemn is susceptible of no control
let me then ask what sentence he has in
reserve for the 12 states who usurped
the power of sending deputies to the
convention a body utterly unknown to
their constitutions
for congress who recommended the
appointment of this body equally unknown
to the confederation
and for the state of new york in
particular which first urged and then
complied with this unauthorized
interposition
but that the objectors may be disarmed
of every pretext
it shall be granted for a moment that
the convention were neither authorized
by their commission nor justified by
circumstances in proposing a
constitution for their country
does it follow that the constitution
ought for that reason alone to be
rejected
if according to the noble precept it be
lawful to accept good advice even from
an enemy
shall we set the ignoble example of
refusing such advice
even when it is offered by our friends
the prudent inquiry in all cases
are surely to be not so much from whom
the advice comes as whether the advice
be good
the sum of what has been here advanced
and proved is that the charge against
the convention of exceeding their powers
except in one instance little urged by
the objectors has no foundation to
support it
that if they had exceeded their powers
they were not only warranted but
required
as the confidential servants of their
country by the circumstances in which
they were placed to exercise the liberty
which they assume
and that finally if they had violated
both their powers and their obligations
in proposing a constitution this ought
nevertheless to be embraced if it be
calculated to accomplish the views and
happiness of the people of america
how far this character is due to the
constitution is the subject
under investigation publius